- [Instructor] Once you've set up a container platform
and your infrastructure code is deployed
through an operator, you're ready to begin deploying changes
through your GitOps workflow from end-to-end.
Let's make a small change to our application code,
so you can see the workflow in action
for a cloud native application.
The first thing that I want to point out
is that we're currently running version 2.0
of our container image on the local Kubernetes cluster.
We're going to build a third container image.
And to do that, we're going to work
within our application repository inside of GitHub.
So I'll navigate into that repository,
and here we can find the source code for our application,
as well as the Docker file
that will be used to build the container image.
Now you'll notice we have a pull request
sitting in this repository.
Let's take a look at what was changed.
If we navigate to the files changed tab,
we can see the exact lines of code.
So the mavepalm.xml file had the artifact version
bumped up by one to 3.0.
And then on the webpage,
we're no longer displaying version 2.0.
We've incremented that to version 3.0.
So that's what we'll see in the browser.
These are pretty simple changes,
but let's keep inspecting this pull request.
Pull requests are extremely important in GitOps.
By using pull requests and approvals,
we can govern what changes find their way into the system.
It also helps us build an audit trail
for the changes that are in the system.
We can always look in Git to see who changed what and when.
You'll notice that we've also built in quality gates
into our development process.
This allows us to ensure that we don't break the build
or introduce a security vulnerability into our system.
Now, everything looks good here,
so I'm going to go ahead and merge the pull request.
But before I do, let's talk about this a little bit.
You should restrict who has permissions
to merge and approve a pull request.
This shouldn't be a broad privilege
that's held by everybody on the team.
You want to make sure that all changes
are thoroughly reviewed
and that there's an approval on them
before they get released.
Okay, so let's go ahead,
we'll merge this pull request,
and then I'm going to navigate into CircleCI.
That's our continuous integration platform.
You'll notice that it's picked up the change
within the repository
and it's starting to build the application source code
and package it into a software artifact.
That software artifact is then going to be packaged
into a container image
and the container image will be built
and pushed into Docker Hub, which is our container registry.
Okay, it looks like
our continuous integration process has finished.
Let's go take a peak in Docker Hub
and we'll look at the new container image.
So here, I'll navigate
into the GitOps foundations repository.
And then if I scroll down,
I can find version 3.0 of our container image.
And if I click on that, I can see all the instructions
that were used to build that image.
Okay, so now we want to deploy
the third version of our container image
on our local Kubernetes cluster using the Flux operator.
Now, this is GitOps
and we drive all of our operations through Git,
so that means we're heading back to GitHub
and we need to navigate into the environment repository
that we forked.
Within this repository, we find our infrastructure code
and we're going to drop into the arc folder.
In this folder, we'll find the Kubernetes manifest
for our deployment.
That manifest contains the container image version.
Here, you can see it's set to version 2.0.
We need to bump that up to 3.0.
Now, I'm going to do that in line here in GitHub,
but I want to emphasize once again,
this should be done via a pull request.
You should protect your config repository in the same way.
You want to use pull requests and approvals.
You don't want any one to have a direct way
to push a change into the system
without somebody else reviewing it
to make sure that it passes all of the gates
and that the change is sound.
All right, so with that in place,
I'm just going to go ahead and commit this
to save us some time.
All right, and then we're going to head over to a terminal
where I am watching our cluster state with kubectl.
So shortly, we should see the Flux operator
begin to reconcile the cluster's runtime state
with the change we just made in the desired state in Git.
There, we see the cluster starting to sync.
It's spinning down the old pods
and spinning up the new pods.
All right, it looks like it's finished its work
and the cluster appears to be reconciled.
Let's go test that out by heading to a browser
and we can go back to our original webpage
and here I'm just going to refresh the page
and you'll notice that version 3.0 of our container image
is now deployed on the cluster.
So with that applied,
we've seen a change flow from end-to-end
through our GitOps workflow
for updating a cloud native application.